when a crisis is upon us how can we deal
with it in a stoic way when we look at
stoic literature we'll find some good
advice that we can apply during times of
hardship crises come in many different
forms we can have personal crises on a
micro level but we can also be faced
with a global crisis that hits us all
which is the main focus of this video
the nature of crisis is that we are
temporarily in a different state often
characterized by danger and with an
acute need of measures and solutions
being in a crisis doesn't have to affect
our behavior in a bad way in fact as
opposed to what's happening around us
we're still in control of our own
actions this doesn't remove the fact
that crises can be highly stressful and
cause many to suffer this video explores
stoic wisdom that we can use in times of
crisis
[Music]
Marcus Aurelius endured many hardships
during his reign as a leader of the most
powerful Empire in the world he faced
war but also the plague that broke out
in the east which eventually caused the
death of five million Romans among the
victims was Lucius verus was not only
Marcus Aurelius adoptive brother but
also reigned with him asko emperor in
his meditations a theme that Marcus
Aurelius frequently writes about is the
human connection between each other and
nature in a crisis that affects lots of
people the awareness of our
connectedness is key when it comes to
coping supporting each other and finding
solutions hence the first one working
together playing your part as most of
you know by now
stoicism isn't about becoming an
emotionless Rock it's about virtue and
part of virtue is acting for the benefit
of the world and humanity Marcus
Aurelius emphasizes that we're
interdependent and therefore we're not
supposed to be egotistical Hermits that
only think of themselves it's appealing
I know especially living in a free and
individualistic society in which we can
go our own ways but when a crisis hits
we're again reminded of how much we rely
on external factors like technology and
other people the structures we are
living in are threatened and when the
system fails us we will be condemned to
each other again on a more primitive
level
hence in crises it's particularly
important to recognize our connection
and set our egos aside to help a fellow
human and rely on our ability to forgive
and tolerate instead of solely engaging
in selfish pursuits as Marcus Aurelius
wrote in his meditations we're born to
work together like feet hands and eyes
like the two rows of teeth upper and
lower to obstruct each other is
unnatural to feel anger at someone to
turn your back on him
these are obstructions end quote
- doing what you can accepting what you
can't
now when we deal with our fellow humans
will undoubtedly be confronted with
people that are selfish irrational
emotional mean violent greedy hostile
etc some people are in full panic mode
and go overboard when it comes to taking
measures to protect themselves with
their heightened survival instincts
their main focus is self-preservation
there's nothing wrong with
self-preservation of course but when it
becomes an obsession it may damage those
around us and only worse in this
situation this is especially true for
those that see the crisis as an
opportunity to screw people over and
make some big bucks out of it but it's
essential to remember that we only
control our own actions we cannot
control how people behave and whether or
not they flout the measures necessary to
improve the situation we cannot control
various aspects of the crisis itself and
how everything plays out
therefore we rely on our own thinking
capacity to navigate ourselves through
the crisis regardless of how it unfolds
it's up to us how we act and to act
despite the actions of others is all we
can do 3 adapting to the new situation
whether we like it or not times have
changed and during a crisis we play by
different rules when we're stuck in our
routines for so long and have taken our
lifestyles and the conference of society
for granted a crisis can be a very
humbling experience things that seem so
normal and stable have suddenly become a
very uncertain the economy takes a hit
with all consequences necessary measures
to fight a crisis lead to the disruption
of our daily affairs it shows us that we
despite our technological advancements
are still very vulnerable and that our
well-being isn't self-evident especially
in times of turmoil we're forced to do
an appeal on our ability to adapt to do
this it's essential to accept the
changing nature of the universe so we
can let go of the past and the things we
took for granted and focus on the
present and make the best out of it
quote change and flux constantly remake
the world just as the incessant
progression of time remakes eternity we
find ourselves in a river which of the
things around us should we value when
none of them can offer a firm foothold
like an attachment to a sparrow weak
limbs it and it's gone and quote work
together
do what you can except what you can't
and adapt that's in a nutshell how we
can be stoic in a crisis thank you for
watching and be kind to each other
[Music]
you